---
title: Introduction
nav_order: 2
parent: "BIM Standard"
---
# INTRODUCTION

## Purpose

This BIM Standard outlines the information requirements, project
workflows, and technical guidelines for BIM Implementation at
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL). It covers the
entire project lifecycle---from planning and design to construction,
commissioning, and operations---while promoting collaboration, data
consistency, and asset management. Refer to the table below for related
documents.

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  DOCUMENT TITLE         DESCRIPTION                     VERSION   DATE
  ---------------------- ------------------------------- --------- --------
  ATL BIM Policy &       Offers a technical framework    1.0       July
  Requirements           for the implementation of                 2025
                         Building Information Modeling             
                         (BIM)                                     

  ATL Asset Management   Defines the processes for       1.0       July
  Plan                   managing digital assets                   2025
                         throughout their lifecycle                

  ATL BIM Execution Plan Outlines the project-specific   1.0       July
  Template (BEP)         BIM strategies and workflows              2025
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

In addition to the document, we provide:

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  FILE NAME         DESCRIPTION                          VERSION   DATE
  ----------------- ------------------------------------ --------- --------
  ATL Revit         Standardize project documentation,   1.0       July
  Templates         offer pre-configured environment               2025
                    with standardized settings, views,             
                    and sheets                                     

  Site Model        Allow users to acquire the correct   1.0       July
                    location for the project                       2025

  ATL Border        Ensures uniformity in project        1.0       July
  Families          documents, crucial for ATL\'s BIM              2025
                    implementation, promoting consistent           
                    standards and efficient project                
                    delivery                                       

  ATL Standard      A library offering standardized      1.0       July
  Details Library   construction details across all                2025
                    disciplines for consistency.                   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Roles and Responsibilities 

This section outlines the specific Building Information Modeling (BIM)
roles and responsibilities within the ATL organization and those
expected of the Designer of Record. It clarifies the division of duties
to ensure effective BIM implementation and project execution,
emphasizing the importance of experience and adherence to established
standards.

### ATL BIM Program

The BIM Program performs initial BIM reviews on all project submittals
from Designers of Record. P&D handles Architectural/Engineering
technical reviews. The City of Atlanta Office of Buildings (OOB) manages
code compliance; Atlanta Fire Department (AFD) oversees Fire/Life Safety
codes; and the Department of Watershed Management (DWM) addresses Grease
Interceptor requirements.

VDC enforces BIM Standards for all project submittals and relays review
comments to Designers of Record as per the Electronic Review Process
Flow Chart (10.9 Project Submittal Section).

P&D provides the final, accepted hard copy of project submittals to the
Project Manager for distribution to the Contractor. The Contractor must
obtain all building permits from relevant agencies before starting
construction. The City of Atlanta Office of Buildings requires a P&D/AFD
stamped/accepted seal on all permitting submittals.

The BIM ATL program will directly assume the following BIM roles:

-   **BIM Manager**: Establish and maintain BIM standards and workflows
    across the agency. Lead the overall BIM implementation strategy.
    Develop and update BIM guidelines, protocols, and best practices.
    Provide training and support to internal teams on BIM-related
    topics. Monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of BIM
    implementation. Stay abreast of industry trends and advancements in
    BIM technology. Coordinate with other departments and stakeholders
    to ensure BIM alignment. Oversee the development and maintenance of
    BIM templates and libraries. Manage BIM software and hardware
    resources. Act as the primary point of contact for BIM-related
    inquiries.

-   **BIM Engineer/Coordinator**: Provide essential support to the
    Contractor/Consultant for the development of accurate and compliant
    BIM models. Review BIM submissions from the Contractor/Consultant to
    ensure accuracy and adherence to established standards. Offer
    technical guidance and support to the Contractor/Consultant
    regarding BIM-related issues. Ensure that models meet the required
    level of detail (LOD) and information requirements. Participate in
    Coordination and clash detection meetings to coordinate resolutions.
    Monitor the progress of BIM model development and identify potential
    issues. Document and track BIM-related issues and their resolutions.
    Assist in the creation of BIM training materials. Contribute to the
    ongoing improvement of BIM standards and workflows.

> ![A diagram of bim
> management](media/image2.png){width="3.6010192475940506in"
> height="3.3927504374453195in"}

### Designers of Record 

Designers of Record must submit all project files to the VDC Department
according to the Electronic Review Process Flow Chart (10.9 Project
Submittal Section) and follow current BIM Standards. They are also
responsible for meeting all P&D Design Standards and submitting any
revised or modified P&D-stamped documents for review and acceptance.

Roles assigned to the Designer of Record must be clearly outlined in the
BIM Execution Plan (BEP). The BEP should detail the responsibilities,
authorities, and qualifications of each role. These roles may include,
but are not limited to:

-   **BIM Coordinator:** Oversee the Contractor/Consultant\'s BIM
    submittals to ensure they comply with ATL standards. Act as the main
    point of contact for BIM-related communication with the ATL
    organization. Coordinate BIM activities within the
    Contractor/Consultant\'s team. Create and maintain the
    Contractor/Consultant\'s BIM Execution Plan (BEP) to align with ATL
    requirements. Manage the exchange of BIM models and data with the
    ATL organization. Organize and lead BIM coordination meetings. Track
    and address BIM-related issues and conflicts. Train all team members
    in BIM standards and procedures. Monitor the development progress of
    BIM models and identify potential risks. Report on BIM performance
    metrics.

<!-- -->

-   **BIM Leader:** Ensure that BIM models are updated, precise, and
    comply with established standards. Oversee the development and
    maintenance of BIM models by the Contractor/Consultant\'s team.
    Implement and enforce BIM standards and procedures within the team.
    Conduct quality control checks on BIM models. Provide technical
    guidance and support to the modeling team. Coordinate with other
    disciplines to ensure model integration. Manage the BIM model
    version control process. Identify and resolve modeling issues.
    Contribute to the development of BIM content and libraries. Stay
    informed about industry best practices in BIM modeling.

![A diagram of bim](media/image3.png){width="3.0114949693788278in"
height="3.176961942257218in"}

## Applicability

BIM is mandatory for all ATL-managed projects unless expressly exempted.
This standard ensures digital design and data integration across all
project phases, from concept to operations. It guides consultants,
contractors, and stakeholders in delivering standardized and coordinated
digital models, data, and documentation.

## BIM Objectives

ATL's strategic objectives for BIM implementation include:

1.  **Enhancing collaboration** between design, construction, and
    airport operations teams through centralized, model-based
    coordination.

2.  **Promoting interoperability** and structured data exchange to
    ensure consistency across all phases and disciplines.

3.  **Increasing project efficiency** through clash detection and cost
    tracking (5D).

4.  **Ensuring long-term asset value** through the delivery of clean,
    validated, and structured model data for seamless integration into
    ATL\'s Asset Management (AM) and facilities systems.

5.  **Driving innovation** by encouraging the use of emerging
    technologies such as digital twins, laser scanning, and real-time
    collaboration platforms (ACC).

<figure>
<img src="media/image4.png" style="width:6.1875in;height:3.30552in"
alt="A screen shot of a pyramid" />
<figcaption><p><strong>Figure</strong> <strong>- BIM maturity
Levels</strong></p></figcaption>
</figure>

-   Stage 0 Low Collaboration: Project information is managed using
    traditional methods like 2D CAD and manual documentation.

-   Stage 1 Partial Collaboration: 2D CAD and basic 3D models are
    produced with BIM tools, mainly for visualization and limited
    collaboration in a CDE.

-   Stage 2 Full Collaboration: All project teams use 3D models, merging
    data into a federated model for visualization (3D),
    scheduling/planning (4D), and cost management (5D).

-   Stage 3 Full Integration: Teams work together online in a fully
    integrated shared model, spanning the whole project lifecycle,
    including operations and maintenance.