---
title: BIM Integration
nav_order: 2
parent: "BIM Standard"
---

# BIM INTEGRATION FOR DELIVERY IN DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION

This section outlines the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION engagement used for BIM
implementation on ATL.

![A diagram of a workflow](media/image5.png){width="9.513199912510936in"
height="4.2730129046369205in"}

## ATL Project Phases (DB / DBB)

Design--Bid--Build (DBB) and Design--Build (DB) are two prevalent
project delivery methods in ATL construction projects.

In the Design--Bid--Build approach, ATL initially engages a designer to
complete the plans. Subsequently, bids are solicited, and a contractor
is selected. The design and construction phases are distinct, each with
its own contract. This method offers greater control over the design but
often results in extended project timelines and potential conflicts
between the designer and contractor.

Conversely, in the Design--Build approach, the owner contracts a single
entity to manage both design and construction. This method facilitates
quicker project completion, enhanced collaboration, and consolidated
responsibility. However, it reduces the owner\'s control over specific
design decisions.

The BIM process coordinates with both ATL project types (DB / DBB)
during their key development stages, defining how digital models and
data evolve progressively.

+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
| PHASE              | DESCRIPTION                                     |
+====================+=================================================+
| Conceptual         | High-level modeling to support feasibility      |
| Planning\*         | analysis, budgeting, and stakeholder engagement |
|                    |                                                 |
| 30%                |                                                 |
+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
| Design\*           | Development of schematic design, design         |
|                    | development, and construction documents using   |
| 60%                | coordinated BIM models                          |
+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
| Pre-Construction\* | Model-based reviews for constructability, clash |
|                    | detection, sequencing, and bid documentation    |
| 90%                |                                                 |
+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
| Construction       | Model utilization for site logistics, 4D        |
|                    | scheduling, submittals, and fabrication         |
| 100%               | coordination                                    |
+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
| Commissioning &    | As-built validation, data handover, and         |
| Closeout           | integration into facility management systems    |
|                    |                                                 |
| 100%               |                                                 |
+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
| Operations &       | Use of BIM data for asset management, space     |
| Maintenance        | planning, and operational efficiency            |
+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------+

\*The implementation of BIM is planned for this phase initially.

## BIM Models Lifecycle 

This graphic represents the process of creating, utilizing, and
maintaining the building information. There are three major phases
throughout the life of a project: Design, Construction, and Operations
and Maintenance. All of them supported by a series of documents
throughout the life cycle of a Project.

<figure>
<img src="media/image6.png" style="width:6.09229in;height:3.49944in"
alt="A diagram of a project" />
<figcaption><p>Figure - Documents and Files Lifecycle</p></figcaption>
</figure>

**BEP (BIM Execution Plan):** document that outlines how Building
Information Modeling (BIM) will be implemented and managed throughout
design and/or construction project. It defines the roles,
responsibilities, processes, and technologies that project stakeholders
will use to collaborate effectively using BIM. The BEP ensures that
project goals are aligned with BIM deliverables, and that data is shared
consistently across all phases --- from design to construction and
facility management.

**IDP (Information Delivery Plan):** structured document that outlines
what project information is needed, who is responsible for creating it,
when it should be delivered, and in what format. It aligns with the
project timeline and ensures that the right data is delivered to the
right people at the right time to support decision-making. The IDP is
often part of the BIM Execution Plan and helps coordinate information
flow across project stages, supporting efficient collaboration and
lifecycle management.

**Site Model:** digital 3D representation of the physical
characteristics of a project's location. It may include topography,
vegetation, and other relevant site data. In BIM, the site model is used
to establish coordinates for reference to other models, this model
should contain the Grids system, Levels, and other related templates.

**Laser Scanning:** This instrument offers comprehensive support at each
stage of the renovation process, facilitating the development of current
conditions and serving as a reference to ensure that the construction
aligns with the as-built model.

**Design-Construction-As Built Models:** When BIM is adopted throughout
the lifecycle of a project, the design phase will produce a model that
serves as a reference for the development of the construction model.
Upon completion of construction, this model can then be updated with
precise data to serve two purposes: first, to contribute to the
federated model in the master ACC environment; second, to be utilized
for maintenance purposes.
